
What is a service? This question cannot be answered in the abstract. Service modeling is an entirely contextual activity. 

Despite their rich history, service design practices remain nascent. The identification and definition of sharable and reusable services is still more art than science.


What is a service?
What other services is it like?
How do I get from design to software?
What meta data do I need to make it effective?

Can you answer these questions? Do you have places in your service development process where these questions are answered in a consistent way? 
Service oriented methodology is a set of software architecture practices that provide us a way to get answers to these questions and document 
them in a way that's effective and meaningful for everyone who has a stake.


Near where I live, in Dublin, is an extensive park called St. Anne's Park. It's part of what was the Guinness 
estate (yes, that Guinness!).  There is a Greek Temple, built in the park as tea house by the Guinness family. 
It’s has very ornate mosaics on the floor, and is almost perfect classical design...

But, it's a Folly. Follies are buildings, or parts of buildings that have no purpose other than as an ornament; 
they are purposely-built as ornaments; they are often eccentric in design or construction; 
there is often an element of fakery in their construction.

The Guinness family built this because they were wealthy, and just because they could. 
We can't afford to do that in our organizations any more and especially these days... 
What we build must be relevant, driven by the right business context, and play its part in an overall ecosystem. 
As you could see from its state of repair, there's no great motivation to maintain the tea house. 
It’s not valuable any more to maintain it, if it ever was...

Put simply, if you create services without a service model and (especially without standards), 
then you are creating custom (one-off) application integration interfaces and not doing service oriented architecture. 

If context is not driving you to create the right services, then they are most likely not adding value to your applications architecture, they are making it worse.


service making WS invocation:
-create WS message
-route message to webservice
-retrieve webservice response
-process webservice response

